in this video you are going to create
your first Jenkins job you will learn
how to create a Jenkins job how to
configure it and finally how to run it
without any further ado let's create our
first Jenkins job on a fresh Jenkins
installation you are invited to create a
new jobs with this link if you already
have few jobs you can also click on the
button new item on the side menu below
enter an item name write the name of
your first Jenkins job for example hello
and the school world as I mentioned in
the previous video I recommend to avoid
spaces to have a friendlier URL you can
choose from several types of jobs some
of which we will explore in the next
sections for now choose a freestyle
project which is the most common one and
click on OK this opens the job
configuration for our first job or
project click on advanced and as I
showed you in the previous video are the
friendlier display name as you can see
our current display name is hello
underscore world
let's give it a better formatting and
enter a friendlier display name now
let's move to source code management to
configure how to pull out code from a
version control system which is get and
for our first job we can use the
companion code for this video course on
github simply copy the URL paste it on
the repository URL and make sure to add
dot get at the end in case the URL
starts with HTTPS this is a public
repository so there is no need to set
credentials make sure the branch to
build is master this is the default
option for now we are not going to set
build triggers and build environment but
we will use these options later on in
the video course
finally we go to the build section and
click on add a build step if you're
using Mac OS or Linux choose execute
shell if you are on Windows choose
execute windows batch command for
example I choose execute shell inside
command I can write a shell script I
showed you this in the previous video
where I wrote the command
HECO quotes hello world quotes however
this time we are going to do something
different to explore how to interact
with the github repository since we
pulled out a repository from github the
code from this repository will be fully
available in the workspace of this
Jenkins job once the job is executed for
example as you can see inside the github
repository for this video course there
is a directory section under school -
and then a directory code in here we
have two scripts hello world dot SH and
ello world dot but these scripts simply
display the string hello world to the
console output the same directory
structure is reproduce inside the
workspace when we pull code from github
therefore we go back to Jenkins and
inside execute shell command we navigate
to that directory by writing the command
CD section under school - forward slash
code and then dot forward slash hello
world dot SH which is the command to
execute the shell script
if you're using windows instead of using
execute shell choose the build step
execute windows batch command and type
CD section under school - backslash code
and then ello world dot path finally we
click on save and we are ready to run
our first Jenkins job we execute the job
by clicking on build now and we can
expect it while it is running by
clicking on the status icon
this opens the console output and we can
see that the string hello world has been
displayed and the job ended successfully
congratulations you just run your first
Jenkins job this is the end of this
video where we created our first Jenkins
job watch the next video where we will
extend this job